

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
APPLE INC. 
PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
PURCHASE ORDER TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") sets forth the terms and conditions that apply to all purchases 
of goods and services by Apple from Seller by means of a purchase order (a "PO") issued by Apple to Seller. As used 
in  this  Agreement, "Seller" means  the  entity  identified  on  the  face  of  a  PO  as  "Seller"  and  its  subsidiaries  and 
affiliates, and "Apple" means Apple Inc. Seller and Apple hereby agree as follows: 
1. SERVICES & DELIVERABLES. Seller agrees to perform the services ("Services") and/or provide the software 
(including  all  updates,  revisions,  error  corrections,  and  subsequent  versions  thereof, "Software"),  materials, 
equipment, hardware, goods, or deliverables described in a PO (collectively referred to as "Goods"), in accordance 
with the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the terms and conditions on the face of the PO, which terms are 
incorporated herein by reference. Upon acceptance of a PO, shipment of Goods or commencement of Services, Seller 
shall be bound by the provisions of this Agreement, whether Seller acknowledges or otherwise signs this Agreement 
or the PO, unless Seller objects to such terms in writing prior to shipping Goods or commencing Services. A PO does 
not constitute a firm offer and may be revoked at any time prior to acceptance. This Agreement may not be added to, 
modified, superseded, or otherwise altered, except by a writing signed by an authorized Apple representative. Any 
terms  or  conditions  contained  in  any  acknowledgment,  invoice,  or  other  communication  of  Seller  which  are 
inconsistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, are hereby rejected. To the extent that a PO might be 
treated as an acceptance of Seller's prior offer, such acceptance is expressly made on condition of assent by Seller to 
the terms hereof and shipment of the Goods or beginning performance of any Services by Seller shall constitute such 
assent. Apple hereby reserves the right to reschedule any delivery or cancel any PO issued at any time prior to shipment 
of the Goods or prior to commencement of any Services. Apple shall not be subject to any charges or other fees as a 
result of such cancellation. All shrink-wrap, click-wrap, browse-wrap, and similar terms accompanying any Software, 
and any online terms of use, terms of service, or similar terms relating to Services, are expressly rejected by Apple 
and are null and void. The terms of this Agreement shall prevail over all other such terms and conditions.  
2. DELIVERY. Time is of the essence. Delivery of Goods shall be made pursuant to the schedule, via the carrier, and 
to the place specified on the face of the applicable PO. Apple reserves the right to return, shipping charges collect, all 
Goods  received  in  advance  of  the  delivery  schedule.  If  no  delivery  schedule  is  specified,  the  order  shall  be  filled 
promptly and delivery will be made by the most expeditious form of transportation by land or sea. If no carrier is 
specified in the PO, Seller shall use the least expensive carrier. In the event Seller fails to deliver the Goods within the 
time specified, Apple may, at its option, decline to accept the Goods and cancel the PO without liability or may demand 
its  allocable  fair  share  of  Seller's  available  Goods  and  cancel  the  balance  of  the  PO  without  liability.  Seller  shall 
package all items in suitable containers to permit safe transportation and handling. Each delivered container must be 
labeled  and  marked  to  identify  contents  without  opening  and all  boxes  and  packages  must  contain  packing sheets 
listing contents. Apple's PO number must appear on all shipping containers, packing sheets, delivery tickets, and bills 
of  lading.  Seller  will  clearly  identify  the  country  of  origin  of  all  Goods  delivered  and  will  indemnify  Apple  with 
respect  to  any  expenses,  duties,  penalties,  damages,  settlements,  costs  or  attorney's  fees  incurred  by  Apple  in 
connection with Seller's failure to identify or misidentification of the country of origin. 
3. IDENTIFICATION, RISK OF LOSS, & DESTRUCTION OF GOODS. Identification of the Goods shall occur in 
accordance with Section 2501 of the California Commercial Code. Seller assumes all risk of loss until title transfers 
to Apple. Title to the Goods shall pass to Apple upon receipt by it of the Goods at the designated destination; provided, 
however,  that  if  the  designated  destination  is  a warehouse  operated  by  Seller  or  a  third-party  on  Seller's  behalf  (a 
"Hub"), even if located on Apple's premises, receipt by Apple shall occur, and risk of loss and title shall transfer to 
Apple, when they are physically delivered to Apple and withdrawn from the Hub. If the Goods ordered are destroyed 
prior to title passing to Apple, Apple may at its option cancel the applicable PO without liability or require delivery 
of substitute Goods of equal quantity and quality. Such delivery will be made as soon as commercially practicable. If 
loss of Goods is partial, Apple shall have the right to require delivery of the Goods not destroyed. 
4. PAYMENT. 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
4.1. As full consideration for the performance of the Services, delivery of the Goods and the assignment of rights to 
Apple as provided in this Agreement, Apple shall pay Seller (i) the amount agreed upon and specified in the applicable 
PO,  or  (ii)  Seller's  quoted  price  on  date  of  shipment  (for  Goods),  or  the  date  Services  were started  (for  Services), 
whichever is lower; provided, however, that if the designated destination for Goods is a Hub Apple shall pay Seller 
(a) the amount agreed upon and specified in the applicable PO, or (b) Seller's quoted price on the date such Goods are 
physically delivered to Apple and withdrawn from the Hub, whichever is lower. Applicable taxes and other charges 
such as shipping costs, duties, customs, tariffs, imposts, and government-imposed surcharges shall be stated separately 
on Seller's invoice. Payment is made when Apple's check is mailed. Payment shall not constitute acceptance. All duties 
and taxes assessable upon the Goods prior to receipt by Apple of Goods conforming to the PO shall be borne by Seller. 
Seller shall invoice Apple  for all  Goods delivered and all Services actually performed. Each invoice submitted by 
Seller must be provided to Apple within ninety (90) days of completion of the Services or delivery of Goods and must 
reference the applicable PO, and Apple reserves the right to return all incorrect invoices. Apple will  receive a 2% 
discount of the invoiced amount for all invoices that are submitted more than ninety (90) days after completion of the 
Services or delivery of the Goods. Apple shall pay the invoiced amount within the timeframe set forth on the face of 
the PO (which timeframe begins after receipt by Apple of a valid, correct and undisputed invoice). Seller will receive 
no royalty or other remuneration on the production or distribution of any products developed by Apple or Seller in 
connection with or based on the Goods or Services provided. 
4.2. If Apple disputes the accuracy of an invoice  (a "Billing  Dispute"), Apple will not later than  thirty (30) days 
following the date of such invoice, notify Seller in writing of the nature of the Billing Dispute. Apple may withhold 
payment of the disputed amount and such payment will not be considered past due during Seller's investigation. Seller 
will make commercially reasonable efforts to completely resolve the Billing Dispute within thirty (30) days following 
the date on which Seller received Apple's initial billing inquiry. If the parties are unable to resolve the Billing Dispute 
within such thirty (30) day period, it will be resolved pursuant to Section 28 below. 
4.3. Seller shall maintain written or electronic records reflecting the basis for any charges billed in connection with a 
PO for five (5) years after Seller's receipt of Apple's final payment with respect to the PO. Apple shall have the right, 
but not the obligation, at any time or from time to time, during regular business hours, upon not less than twenty-four 
(24) hours notice to Seller, to inspect, audit or examine Seller's operations, records, systems and facilities to determine 
Seller's and any sub-contractor's compliance with the PO and the basis for any amounts billed to Apple. Any such 
inspection, examination, and/or audit shall not (i) relieve Seller of any obligation, responsibility or liability, or (ii) 
constitute Apple's approval of or consent to any actions undertaken or methods, systems and/or procedures used by 
Seller. Any inspection, examination and/or audit that Apple may perform shall be for Apple's sole benefit. If any such 
audit discloses any overcharges, Seller shall, on demand, pay Apple the amount of such overcharges, together with 
interest on such overcharges at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum, or the maximum amount allowed by law, 
whichever  is  less,  from  the  date  of  each  such  overcharge,  until  reimbursed  to  Apple.  If  any  such  audit  discloses 
overcharges, in addition to any amounts to which Apple may be entitled, Seller shall, on demand, reimburse Apple 
for all costs and expenses incurred by Apple in connection with such audit. 
5. WARRANTIES. 
5.1.  Services.  Seller  represents  and  warrants  that  all  Services  shall  be  completed  in  a  professional,  workmanlike 
manner, with the degree of skill and care that is required by current, good, and sound professional procedures. Further, 
Seller represents and warrants that the Services shall be completed in accordance with applicable specifications and 
any statements of work signed by an authorized representative of Apple and shall be correct and appropriate for the 
purposes stated therein. Seller represents and warrants that the performance of Services under this Agreement will not 
conflict with, or be prohibited in any way by, any other agreement or statutory restriction to which Seller is bound. 
5.2. Goods. Seller warrants that it has good and transferable title to the Goods and that all Goods provided will be new 
and will not be used or refurbished. Seller warrants that all Goods delivered shall be free from all defects and shall 
conform to all applicable specifications and any statements of work signed by an authorized representative of Apple 
for a period of fifteen (15) months from the date of delivery to Apple or for the period provided in Seller's standard 
warranty covering the Goods, whichever is longer. Seller hereby agrees that it will make spare parts available to Apple 
for  a  period  of  seven  (7)  years  from  the  date  of  shipment  at  Seller's  then  current  price,  less  applicable  discounts. 
Additionally, Goods purchased shall be subject to all written and oral express warranties made by Seller's agents, and 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
to all warranties provided for by the California Commercial Code. All warranties shall be construed as conditions as 
well as  warranties  and  shall  not  be  exclusive.  Seller  shall  furnish  to  Apple  Seller's  standard  warranty  and  service 
guaranty applicable to the Goods. All warranties shall run both to Apple and to its customers. If Apple identifies a 
warranty problem with the Goods during the warranty period, Apple will promptly notify Seller of such problems and 
will return the Goods to Seller, at Seller's expense. Within five (5) business days of receipt of the returned Goods, 
Seller shall, at Apple's option, either repair or replace such Goods, or credit Apple's account for the same. Replacement 
and repaired Goods shall be warranted for the remainder of the warranty period or six (6) months, whichever is longer. 
6.  INSPECTION.  Apple  shall  have  a  reasonable  time  after  receipt  of Goods  or  Service  deliverables  and  before 
payment to inspect them for conformity to the PO and applicable specifications and any statements of work signed by 
an  authorized  representative  of  Apple,  and  Goods  received  prior  to  inspection  shall  not  be  deemed accepted  until 
Apple has run adequate tests to determine whether the Goods conform thereto. Use of a portion of the Goods for the 
purpose of testing shall not constitute an acceptance of the Goods. If Goods tendered do not wholly conform with the 
provisions hereof, Apple shall have the right to reject such Goods. Nonconforming Goods will be returned to Seller 
freight collect and risk of loss will pass to Seller upon Apple's delivery to the common carrier. 
7.  INDEPENDENT  CONTRACTOR.  Apple  is  interested  only in  the  results  obtained  under  this  Agreement;  the 
manner and means of achieving the results are subject to Seller’s sole control. Seller is an independent contractor for 
all  purposes,  without  express  or  implied  authority  to  bind  Apple  by  contract  or  otherwise.  Neither  Seller  nor  its 
employees,  agents  or  subcontractors  ("Seller Parties")  are  agents  or  employees  of  Apple,  and  therefore  are  not 
entitled  to  any  employee  benefits  of  Apple,  including  but  not  limited  to,  any  type  of  insurance.  Seller  shall  be 
responsible for all costs and expenses incident to performing its obligations under this Agreement and shall provide 
Seller's own supplies and equipment. Apple may require a background check of any of Seller Parties who perform 
Services on Apple premises, and Seller hereby agrees to conduct such investigation in accordance with background 
check standards to be provided by Apple, and shall at all times comply with all laws and regulations applicable to 
background  investigations.  Apple  shall  keep  the  results  of  any  such  investigation  confidential,  and  provide  such 
information only to those persons with a business need to know, or as required by applicable law. Seller Parties shall 
observe the working rules of all Apple premises when on such premises. Apple reserves the right to prohibit any Seller 
Parties from performing Services on Apple's premises. 
8. SELLER RESPONSIBLE FOR TAXES AND RECORDS.  Except as otherwise required by applicable law, Apple 
shall have no responsibility to pay or withhold from any payment to Seller under this Agreement, any federal, state, 
or local taxes or fees.  Seller shall be liable for any applicable income taxes, levies, duties, costs, charges, withholdings, 
deductions or any charges of equivalent effect imposed on, or in respect of the Services provided by Seller to Apple 
under  this  Agreement.    Where  applicable,  Seller  will  charge  Apple  sales  tax,  excise  tax,  use  tax,  value  added  tax 
("VAT"), goods and services tax ("GST"), consumption tax, or equivalent type charges (hereinafter "Transaction 
Taxes") that are owed by Apple solely as a result of the Services provided by Seller to Apple under this Agreement 
and which are required or permitted to be collected from Apple by Seller under applicable law.  If Apple provides 
Seller with a valid exemption certificate, Seller shall not collect the Transaction Taxes covered by such certificate.  All 
charges will be supported by valid tax invoices provided by Seller to Apple consistent with the applicable EU invoicing 
directive  or  comparable  authority  of  the  relevant  jurisdiction.    Where any  relevant  taxation  authority  imposes  any 
income tax on the payment for Services by Apple to Seller and requires Apple to withhold such tax ("Withholding 
Tax"), Apple may deduct such Withholding Tax from the payment to Seller and remit such Withholding Tax to the 
relevant taxing authority on behalf of Seller.  The determination of the applicability of a Withholding Tax is at Apple’s 
sole discretion.  In the event a reduced Withholding Tax rate may apply on payments to Seller, Seller shall furnish to 
Apple  as  soon  as  practicable  all  documentation necessary  to  evidence  the  qualifications  for  the  reduced  rate  of 
Withholding Tax.  If the necessary documentation is not provided in a timely fashion before payment, the reduced 
Withholding  Tax  rate  will  not  apply  and  any  payments  to  Seller  shall  be  subject  to  the  full  rate  of  Withholding 
Tax.  Upon  reasonable  request  by  Seller,  Apple  shall  furnish  Seller  with  tax  receipts  or  other  documentation 
evidencing the payment of such Withholding Tax when available. Upon request, Seller shall provide Apple with a 
validly executed U.S. Internal Revenue Service form to establish its U.S. or non-U.S. status or any other necessary 
tax  documentation.  Where  applicable,  a  non-U.S.  Seller  shall  note,  on  each  invoice  issued  to  Apple  under  this 
Agreement, the amount of Services performed by Seller within the United States, if any.  

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
9.  INSURANCE.  Seller  shall  be  solely  responsible  for  maintaining  and  requiring Seller Parties to  maintain  such 
adequate health, auto, workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, disability, liability, and other insurance, 
as is required by law or as is the common practice in Seller's and Seller Parties' trades or businesses, whichever affords 
greater  coverage.  Upon  request,  Seller  shall  provide  Apple  with  certificates  of  insurance  or  evidence  of  coverage 
before commencing performance under this Agreement. Seller shall provide adequate coverage for any Apple property 
under the care, custody or control of Seller or Seller Parties. 
10. INDEMNITY. Seller shall indemnify, hold harmless, and at Apple's request, defend Apple, its officers, directors, 
customers, agents and employees, against all claims, liabilities, damages, losses, and expenses, including attorneys' 
fees, interest, and cost of suit arising out of or in any way connected with the Goods or Services provided pursuant to 
a PO, including, without limitation, (i) any claim based on the death or bodily injury to any person, destruction or 
damage to property, or contamination of the environment and any associated clean up costs, (ii) Seller failing to satisfy 
the  Internal  Revenue  Service's  guidelines  for  an  independent  contractor,  (iii)  any  claim  based  on  the  negligence, 
omissions, or willful misconduct of Seller or any of Seller Parties, (iv) Seller  failing to satisfy its obligations with 
regard to the protection of Confidential Data as described in Section 11 below, (v) the failure of Seller or any Seller 
Parties to comply with a requirement of applicable law, including but not limited to, those relevant to the payment of 
any  wages  and/or  any  other  compensation,  or  statutory  benefits  of  employment, including  but  not  limited  to, 
Workers’ Compensation insurance, and/or for statutory penalties and/or interest, and (vi) any claim by a third party 
against Apple alleging that the Goods or Services, the results of such Services, or any other products or processes 
provided pursuant to a PO, infringe a patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, or other proprietary right of a third 
party, whether such are provided alone or in combination with other products, software, or processes. Seller shall not 
settle any such suit or claim without Apple's prior written approval. Seller agrees to pay or reimburse all costs that 
may  be  incurred  by  Apple  in  enforcing  this  indemnity,  including  attorneys'  fees.  Should  the use  of  any  Goods  or 
Services by Apple, its distributors, subcontractors, or customers be enjoined, be threatened by injunction, or be the 
subject of any legal proceeding, Seller shall, at its sole cost and expense, either (a) substitute fully equivalent non-
infringing  Goods  or  Services;  (b)  modify  the  Goods  or  Services  so  that  they  no  longer  infringe  but  remain  fully 
equivalent in functionality; (c) obtain for Apple, its distributors, subcontractors, or customers the right to continue 
using the Goods or Services; or (d) if none of  the foregoing is possible, refund all amounts paid for the infringing 
Goods or Services. 
11. CONFIDENTIALITY; PERSONAL DATA; DATA SECURITY.  
11.1  Confidentiality.    Seller  may  acquire  knowledge  of  Apple  Confidential  Information  (as defined  below)  in 
connection  with  its  performance  hereunder  and  agrees  to  keep  such Apple  Confidential  Information  in  confidence 
during and following termination or expiration of this Agreement. "Apple Confidential Information" includes but 
is not limited to all information, whether written or oral, in any form, including without limitation, information relating 
to the research, development, products, methods of manufacture, trade secrets, business plans, customers, vendors, 
finances, personnel data, Work Product (as defined in Section 12, below), and other material or information considered 
proprietary by Apple relating to the current or anticipated business or affairs of Apple which is disclosed directly or 
indirectly to Seller. In addition, Apple Confidential Information means any third party's proprietary or confidential 
information disclosed to Seller in the course of providing Services or Goods to Apple. Apple Confidential Information 
does  not  include  any  information  (i)  which  Seller  lawfully  knew  without  restriction  on  disclosure  before  Apple 
disclosed it to Seller, (ii) which is now or becomes publicly known through no wrongful act or failure to act of Seller, 
(iii)  which  Seller  developed  independently  without  use  of  the  Apple  Confidential  Information,  as  evidenced  by 
appropriate documentation, or (iv) which is hereafter lawfully furnished to Seller by a third party as a matter of right 
and without restriction on disclosure. In addition, Seller may disclose Apple Confidential Information that is required 
to be disclosed pursuant to a requirement of a government agency or law so long as Seller provides prompt notice to 
Apple of such requirement prior to disclosure. Seller agrees not to copy, alter, or directly or indirectly disclose any 
Apple  Confidential  Information.  Additionally,  Seller  agrees  to  limit  its  internal  distribution  of  Apple  Confidential 
Information to Seller Parties who have a need to know, and to take steps to ensure that the dissemination is so limited, 
including the execution by Seller Parties of nondisclosure agreements with provisions substantially similar to those 
set forth in this Agreement. In no event will Seller use less than the degree of care and means that it uses to protect its 
own information of like kind, but in any event not less than reasonable care to prevent the unauthorized use of Apple 
Confidential Information. Seller further agrees not to use the Apple Confidential Information except in the course of 
performing hereunder and will not use such Apple Confidential Information for its own benefit or for the benefit of 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
any third party. The mingling of the Apple Confidential Information with information of Seller shall not affect the 
confidential  nature  or  ownership  of  the  same  as  stated  hereunder. Seller  agrees  not  to  design  or  manufacture  any 
products incorporating Apple Confidential Information without Apple's express written consent in each instance. All 
Apple Confidential Information is and shall remain Apple property. Upon Apple's written request or the termination 
of this Agreement, Seller shall return, transfer, or assign to Apple all Apple Confidential Information, including all 
Work Product. 
11.2  Protection  of  Personal  Data.  As  a  result  of  this  Agreement,  Seller  and Seller Parties may  obtain  certain 
information relating to identified or identifiable individuals (“Personal  Data”), including but not limited to, from 
Apple on Apple’s or its affiliate(s)’ behalf and/or from Apple affiliates located in any jurisdiction. Seller shall have 
no right, title or interest in Personal Data obtained by it as a result of this Agreement. The details of the type of Personal 
Data and categories of data subjects shall be determined in a PO, statements of work or other contractual instruments 
executed in connection with this Agreement.  
 
Seller may only disclose Personal Data to third parties (including Seller Parties), who have a need to know and have 
signed agreements that require them to protect Personal Data in the same manner as detailed in this Agreement. Seller 
shall not engage any third party to perform any portion of the Services if such party may obtain or otherwise process 
Personal Data, without Apple’s prior written consent. Notwithstanding such consent, Seller shall not be relieved of 
any obligations under this Section and shall remain solely liable to Apple if the third party fails to fulfil its obligations 
with respect to Personal Data. 
 
Seller  and Seller Parties shall: (i) comply with Apple’s or its affiliate’s reasonable instructions regarding Personal 
Data, unless otherwise required by applicable law, in which case, Seller shall promptly notify Apple of the applicable 
legal  requirement  before  processing  Personal  Data,  unless  such  applicable  legal  requirement  prohibits  such 
notification  for  public  interest  reasons;  (ii) immediately  inform  Apple  if,  in  its  opinion, an  instruction  from  Apple 
infringes  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  27  April  2016 or  other 
applicable data protection laws; (iii) collect, access, maintain, use, process and transfer Personal Data solely for the 
purpose of performing Seller’s obligations under this Agreement; (iv) comply with all applicable laws, regulations 
and international  accords  or  treaties pertaining  to  Personal  Data; (v)  take  all  appropriate  legal,  organizational  and 
technical measures to protect against unlawful and unauthorized processing of Personal Data; and (vi) promptly notify 
Apple’s Privacy Counsel at privacy_notifications@apple.com if it receives any requests from an individual with 
respect  to  Personal  Data,  including  but  not  limited  to, “opt-out”  specifications, information access  requests, 
information rectification requests and all like requests. Seller shall work with Apple to promptly and effectively handle 
such requests with respect to Personal Data, and only respond to any such requests if expressly authorized to do so by 
Apple. 
 
If Personal Data is transferred from the European Economic Area or Switzerland to or by Seller and/or Seller Parties, 
as processor and/or sub-processor, to a jurisdiction which the European Commission or, where relevant, the Swiss 
Federal  Data  Protection  and  Information  Commissioner,  have  not  determined  as  ensuring  an  adequate  level  of 
protection  of  personal  data,  then Seller  shall  either:  (a)  subscribe  to  the  appropriate  legal  instruments  for  the 
international  transfer  of  data  (such  as  the  EU-U.S.  Privacy  Shield  Framework);  or  (b)  execute:  (1)  the  Standard 
Contractual Clauses as approved by the European Commission; and (2) where relevant, the Swiss Transborder Data 
Flow Agreement; or (c) execute mutually agreeable contractual instruments or Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) as 
such BCR are approved by the relevant supervisory authority. 
 
Seller shall be liable for the damage caused to any individual as a result of Seller’s processing of Personal Data, where 
Seller has not complied with its obligations under this Section or any applicable laws, regulations and international 
accords or treaties pertaining to Personal Data, or where it has acted outside or contrary to lawful instructions from 
Apple. 
 
 
11.3 Data Security.  Seller shall take all appropriate legal, organizational and technical measures to protect against 
unlawful and unauthorized processing of Personal Data or Apple Confidential Information ("Confidential Data").  
Seller shall maintain reasonable operating standards and security procedures, and shall use its best efforts to secure 
Confidential Data through the use of appropriate physical and logical security measures including, but not limited to, 
appropriate network security and encryption technologies, and the use of reasonable user identification or password 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
control requirements, including multiple-factor authentication, strong passwords, session time-outs, and other security 
procedures as may be issued from time to time by Apple.  If requested by Apple at any time during the term of this 
Agreement, Seller shall provide Apple with a copy of Seller’s then current security policy.  Seller shall promptly notify 
Apple if Seller knows or has reason to believe there has been any misuse, compromise, loss, or unauthorized disclosure 
or  acquisition  of,  or  access  to,  Confidential  Data  (“Information  Security  Breach”).  Upon  any  discovery  of  an 
Information Security Breach, Seller will investigate, remediate, and mitigate the effects of the Information Security 
Breach, and provide Apple with assurances reasonably satisfactory to Apple that such Information Security Breach 
will not recur. Seller shall provide at Apple’s request information related to any such Information Security Breach, 
including but not limited to, vulnerabilities or flaws, start or end date, date of discovery, and specific actions taken to 
contain and/or mitigate. If any Information Security Breach occurs as a result of an act or omission of Seller or Seller 
Parties, Seller will, at Seller’s sole expense, undertake remedial measures (including notice, credit monitoring services, 
fraud insurance and the establishment of a call center to respond to customer inquiries) in accordance with Apple’s 
instructions.  
 
11.4 Assistance. Seller shall provide Apple with reasonable assistance and support and shall act solely at Apple’s 
direction in (i) responding to an investigation or cooperation request by a data protection regulator or similar authority; 
(ii) providing notice of an Information Security Breach to any third party where required or requested by Apple; (iii) 
conducting  legally  required  privacy,  security,  or  data  protection  impact  assessments;  and  (iv)  consulting  with  the 
relevant authorities when required in relation to such impact assessments.  
 
11.5 Return  or  Destruction  of  Confidential  Data.  Upon  termination  of  this  Agreement  for  any  reason,  Seller  shall 
promptly contact Apple for instructions regarding the return, destruction or other appropriate action with regard to 
Confidential Data.  Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, or at any time at the request of Apple, Seller 
shall: (i) return all Confidential Data to Apple, including but not limited to all paper and electronic files, materials, 
documentation, notes, plans, drawings, and all copies thereof, and ensure that all electronic copies of such Confidential 
Data are deleted from Seller’s (and where applicable, its Subcontractors’) systems; or (ii) if requested by Apple in 
writing, promptly destroy, delete and render unrecoverable all tangible and electronic instances of Confidential Data 
from Seller’s (and where applicable, its Subcontractors’) systems, all in accordance with the National Institute of 
Standards  and  Technology  (NIST)  Guidelines  for  Media  Sanitization.    If  requested  by  Apple,  Seller  shall  provide 
Apple with written confirmation of its compliance with the requirements of this Section.  
 
11.6 Notification of Non-Compliance. If Seller is unable to comply with the obligations stated in this Section, Seller 
shall promptly notify Apple, and Apple may take any one or more of the following actions: (i) suspend the transfer of 
Confidential Data to Seller; (ii) require Seller to cease processing Confidential Data; (iii) demand the secure return or 
destruction of Confidential Data; and/or (iv) immediately terminate this Agreement. 
 
11.7 Seller shall make available to Apple all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the obligations of 
this Section and all applicable laws, regulations and international accords or treaties pertaining to Personal Data; and 
acknowledges and agrees that Apple or an Apple-appointed third-party (collectively, “Monitor”) has the right, for the 
purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this Section, to review the systems, records and/or facilities 
of Seller and Seller’s subcontractors and  affiliates  that  provide  goods  and/or  services  related  to  or  involving  the 
processing, transport or storage of Confidential Data. Apple will announce its intent to review Seller in accordance 
with this Section by providing at least five (5) business days’ notice to Seller. Seller will provide Monitor with access 
to its site, systems and records as reasonably necessary to assess compliance with the requirements of this Section. At 
Apple’s reasonable request, Seller will provide Monitor with a personal site guide while on-site.  Seller will make 
available to Monitor, for in-person or phone interviews, any Seller employees and/or contractors for the provision of 
information and cooperation related to the verification hereunder. Such verification will be at Apple's expense, unless 
it reveals material non-compliance with the requirements of this Section, in which case the cost will be borne by Seller. 
 
 
12.  OWNERSHIP  OF  WORK  PRODUCT.  For  purposes  of  this  Agreement, "Work  Product" includes,  without 
limitation, all designs, discoveries, creations, works, devices, masks, models, work in progress, Service deliverables, 
inventions,  products,  computer  programs,  procedures,  improvements,  developments,  drawings,  notes,  documents, 
information and materials made, conceived, or developed by Seller, alone or with others, which result from or relate 
to the Services performed pursuant to a PO, and all copies thereof. Standard Goods manufactured by Seller and sold 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
to Apple without having been designed, customized, or modified for Apple do not constitute Work Product. All Work 
Product shall at all times be and remain the sole and exclusive property of Apple. Seller hereby agrees to irrevocably 
assign and transfer to Apple and does hereby assign and transfer to Apple all of its worldwide right, title, and interest 
in  and  to  the  Work  Product  including  all  associated  intellectual  property  rights.  Apple  will  have  the  sole  right  to 
determine the treatment of any Work Product, including the right to keep it as trade secret, execute and file patent 
applications on it, to use and disclose it without prior patent application, to file registrations for copyright or trademark 
in its own name, or to follow any other procedure that Apple deems appropriate. Seller agrees: (a) to disclose promptly 
in writing to Apple all Work Product in its possession; (b) to assist Apple in every reasonable way, at Apple's expense, 
to secure, perfect, register, apply for, maintain, and defend for Apple's benefit all copyrights, patent rights, mask work 
rights, trade secret rights, and all other proprietary rights or statutory protections in and to the Work Product in Apple's 
name  as  it  deems  appropriate;  and  (c)  to  otherwise  treat  all  Work  Product  as  Apple  Confidential  Information  as 
described  above.  These  obligations  to  disclose,  assist,  execute,  and  keep  confidential  survive  the  expiration  or 
termination of this Agreement. All tools and equipment supplied by Apple to Seller shall remain the sole property of 
Apple. Seller will ensure that Seller Parties appropriately waive any and all claims and assign to Apple any and all 
rights  or  any  interests  in  any  Work  Product  or  original  works  created  in  connection  with  this  Agreement.  Seller 
irrevocably agrees not to assert against Apple or its direct or indirect customers, assignees, or licensees any claim of 
any intellectual property rights of Seller affecting the Work Product. Apple will not have rights to any works conceived 
or reduced to practice by Seller which were developed entirely on Seller's own time without using equipment, supplies, 
facilities, or trade secret or Apple Confidential Information, unless (i) such works relate to Apple's business, or Apple's 
actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development, or (ii) such works result from any Services performed by 
Seller for Apple. 
13. ANTI-CORRUPTION.   
13.1 Seller shall comply with, and shall ensure that all Seller Parties comply with Apple’s Anti-Corruption Policy as 
posted on Apple’s public website, and with all  applicable  laws  and  regulations  enacted  to  combat  bribery  and 
corruption, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, the principles of the OECD 
Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign  Public Officials, and any corresponding laws of all countries where 
business or services will be conducted or performed pursuant to this Agreement.   Seller shall not, and shall ensure 
that Seller Parties do not, either directly or indirectly, pay, offer, promise to pay, or give anything of value (including 
any amounts paid or credited by Apple to Seller) to any person including an employee or official of a government, 
government controlled enterprise or company, or political party, with the reasonable knowledge that it will be used 
for the purpose of obtaining any improper benefit or to improperly influence any act or decision by such person or for 
the  purpose  of  obtaining,  retaining,  or  directing  business.  Any  amounts  paid  by  Apple  to  Seller  or Seller 
Parties pursuant to the terms of this Agreement will be for services actually rendered, or products sold, in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement.  Seller shall not, and shall ensure that Seller Parties do not, offer or accept bribes or 
kickbacks in any form.  
13.2 Disclosure of Government Related Parties.  Seller and Seller Parties represents and warrants that they have, to 
the best of the Seller’s and Seller’s Affiliate’s knowledge and to the extent permitted by law, provided Apple with 
complete and accurate information regarding any majority owner, partner, officer, director, manager of Seller or Seller 
Parties, or any other party who is authorized to conduct business on behalf of Seller or Seller Parties (collectively, 
"Seller Authorized Parties") that is, has been or will become, an official or employee of a governmental entity or 
political party or a candidate for political office (each, a "Government Related Party").  If at any time during the 
term of this Agreement, Seller or Seller Parties becomes aware, or otherwise has reason to believe, that any Seller 
Authorized Party is, has been or will become, a Government Related Party, then, to the extent permissible by law, 
Seller shall promptly notify Apple. 
14.  NO GRATUTIES. Seller shall not, and shall ensure that Seller Parties do not, either directly, or indirectly, offer 
or give any person or entity any gift, gratuity, payment or other inducement with a view toward securing business 
from Apple or influencing the terms, conditions or performance of this Agreement or any PO.   
15. TERMINATION. Apple may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to Seller if Seller fails to perform or 
otherwise breaches this Agreement, files a petition in bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, or dissolves. In the event of 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
such termination, Apple shall pay Seller for the portion of the Services satisfactorily performed and those conforming 
Goods delivered to Apple through the date of termination, less appropriate offsets, including any additional costs to 
be incurred by Apple in completing the Services. Apple may terminate this Agreement for any other reason upon ten 
(10) days' written notice to Seller. Seller shall cease to perform Services and/or provide Goods under this Agreement 
on the date of termination specified in such notice. In the event of such termination, Apple shall be liable to Seller 
only for those Services satisfactorily performed and those conforming Goods delivered to Apple through the date of 
termination, less appropriate offsets. Seller may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to Apple if Apple fails 
to pay Seller within sixty (60) days after Seller notifies Apple in writing that payment is past due. Upon the expiration 
or termination of this Agreement for any reason: (i) each party will be released from all obligations to the other arising 
after the date of expiration or termination, except for those which by their terms survive such termination or expiration; 
and  (ii)  Seller  will  promptly  notify  Apple  of  all  Apple  Confidential  Information  or  any  Work  Product  in  Seller's 
possession and, at the expense of Seller and in accordance with Apple's instructions, will promptly deliver to Apple 
all such Apple Confidential Information and/or Work Product. 
16. SURVIVAL OF OBLIGATIONS. Any obligations and duties that by their nature extend beyond the expiration or 
termination of this Agreement shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. 
17. FORCE MAJEURE. Neither party will be liable for any failure to perform, including failure to accept performance 
of  Services  or  take  delivery  of  the  Goods  as  provided,  caused  by  circumstances  beyond  its  reasonable  control 
including, but not limited to, acts of God, acts of war, government action or accident, provided it promptly notifies 
the other party and uses reasonable efforts to correct its failure to perform. 
18. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement shall be deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the 
validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 
19. REMEDIES. If Seller breaches this Agreement, Apple shall have all remedies available by law and at equity. For 
the purchase of Goods, Seller's sole remedy in the event of breach of this Agreement by Apple shall be the right to 
recover damages in the amount equal to the difference between market price at the time of breach and the purchase 
price specified in the Agreement. No alternate method of measuring damages shall apply to this transaction. Seller 
shall have no right to resell Goods for Apple's account in the event of wrongful rejection, revocation of acceptance, 
failure to make payment or  repudiation by Apple and any resale so made shall be for the account of Seller. Seller 
acknowledges and agrees that the obligations and promises of Seller under this Agreement are of a unique, intellectual 
nature giving them particular value. Seller's breach of any of the promises contained in this Agreement will result in 
irreparable and continuing damage to Apple for which there will be no adequate remedy at law and, in the event of 
such breach, Apple will be entitled to seek injunctive relief, or a decree of specific performance. 
20. ATTORNEYS' FEES. In any action to enforce this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover all 
court costs and expenses and reasonable attorneys' fees, in addition to any other relief to which it may be entitled. 
21.  LIMITATION  OF  LIABILITY.  IN  NO  EVENT  SHALL  APPLE  BE  LIABLE  TO  SELLER  OR SELLER 
PARTIES, OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES  ARISING  OUT  OF,  OR  IN  CONNECTION  WITH,  THIS  AGREEMENT,  WHETHER  OR  NOT 
APPLE WAS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 
22.  ASSIGNMENT/WAIVER.  Seller  may  not  assign  this  Agreement  or  any  of  its  rights  or  obligations  under  this 
Agreement, without the prior written consent of Apple. Any assignment or transfer without such written consent shall 
be null and void. A waiver of any default or of any term or condition of this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a 
continuing waiver or a waiver of any other default or any other term or condition. 
23. NONEXCLUSIVE AGREEMENT. This is not an exclusive agreement. Apple is free to engage others to perform 
Services or provide Goods the same as or similar to Seller's. Seller is free to, and is encouraged to, advertise, offer, 
and provide Seller's Services and/or Goods to others; provided however, that Seller does not breach this Agreement. 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
24. NOTICES. Except for POs which may be sent by local mail, facsimile transmission, or electronically transmitted, 
all notices required or permitted by this Agreement must be in writing addressed to the authorized representative(s) 
of the other party. Notice will be deemed given (i) when delivered personally; (ii) when sent by confirmed facsimile; 
(iii)  one  day  after  having  been  sent  by  commercial  overnight  carrier  specifying  next-day  delivery  with  written 
verification of receipt; and (iv) three days after having been sent by first class or certified mail postage prepaid. A 
copy of any notice sent to Apple must also be sent simultaneously to Apple's General Counsel at Apple Inc., One 
Apple Park Way, Cupertino, CA 95014, fax (408) 974-8530. 
25. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS; SAFETY AND LABOR STANDARDS. 
25.1.  General.  Seller  and Seller Parties will  comply  with  all  applicable  laws  and  regulations  (including,  without 
limitation, the applicable laws, orders, policies, and regulations of the U.S. Government, U.S. Customs, and any other 
jurisdiction  in  which  Goods  or  Services  are provided,  relating  to  import,  export  and  re-export  of  commodities, 
technical  data  and  software,  privacy,  labor  and  employment,  anti-discrimination  and  anti-harassment,  freedom  of 
association,  environmental  protection,  hazardous  substances  management,  pollution  prevention  and  resource 
sustainability, waste management, recycling, protection of intellectual property, and anti-corruption) and Seller will 
defend and hold Apple harmless from any expense or damage resulting from its violation or alleged violation of any 
such law or regulation in the performance of this Agreement. Seller is solely responsible for compliance by Seller 
and/or Seller Parties with all laws and regulations regarding the payment of wages and/or other compensation to Seller 
Parties, including ensuring the provision of Workers’ Compensation insurance for all Seller Parties. 
25.2 Supplier Code of Conduct. At all times during the term of this Agreement, Seller will comply with the Apple 
Supplier Code of Conduct ("Code of Conduct"), as amended by Apple from time-to-time, available from Apple’s 
public  website  at  https://www.apple.com/supplier-responsibility/. Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  herein, 
Seller  will:    (i)  allow  Apple  and  a  third  party  representative,  retained  by  or  representing  Apple  (collectively,  the 
"Auditor"), to assess Seller’s compliance with the Code of Conduct by inspecting Seller’s facilities and/or reviewing 
Seller’s practices, policies, and relevant records without notice, and/or by interviewing Seller’s personnel without 
monitoring, solely to verify Seller’s compliance with the Code of Conduct (collectively, an "Assessment");  (ii) 
promptly provide the Auditor with access to any relevant facilities and personnel without disruption or interference, 
in connection with any Assessment; (iii) promptly provide complete and accurate information and documentation in 
response  to the Auditor’s requests, (iv) allow the Auditor  to  review  and  assess  working  hours  and  conditions, 
remuneration  and  benefits,  personnel  practices,  production,  dormitory,  and  dining  facilities,  business  conduct,  and 
health,  safety,  and  environmental  practices,  as  applicable,  in  connection  with  any  Assessment;  (v)  not  request  or 
encourage, directly or indirectly, any Seller personnel to furnish false or incomplete information in connection with 
any Assessment; (vi) not take retaliatory action against any Seller personnel interviewed during an Assessment; and 
(vii) promptly implement corrective action to remedy any material non-conformance with the Code of Conduct.  Apple 
may disclose the results of any Assessment in connection with its corporate responsibility, corporate compliance, and 
periodic  reporting  activities.    Seller  will  obtain  all  permits,  consents,  and  authorizations  necessary  to  enable  the 
Auditor to assess Seller’s policies, practices, records, and facilities.  Seller’s failure to perform its obligations described 
in this subsection or to remedy any material non-conformance with the Code of Conduct after a reasonable amount of 
time will constitute a breach of this Agreement.  For purposes of this subsection, the term “Seller” includes any party 
that performs a material portion of the obligations to Apple under this Agreement. 
25.3.  Export  Compliance.  Seller  agrees  that  it  will  not  export,  re-export,  resell  or  transfer  any  export  controlled 
commodity, technical data or software (i) in violation of such limitations imposed by the United States or any other 
appropriate national government authority; or (ii) to any country for which an export license or other governmental 
approval is required at the time of export, without first obtaining all necessary licenses or other approvals.  
25.4. Customs. Upon Apple's request, Seller will promptly provide Apple with a statement of origin for all Goods and 
United States Customs documentation for Goods wholly or partially manufactured outside of the United States.  To 
the extent that services will be provided in the United States and/or that Goods will be transported into the United 
States, Seller represents that either (a) it is C-TPAT certified by U.S. Customs & Border Protection, and will maintain 
that certification while providing services in, or transporting Goods into, the United States or (b) it will comply with 
the  C-TPAT  (Customs  Trade  Partnership  Against  Terrorism)  security  procedures  that  may  be  found  on  the  U.S. 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
Customs website at www.cbp.gov <http://www.cbp.gov> (or such other website that the C-TPAT security procedures 
may be moved to by the U.S. Government). 
25.5.  Equal  Employment  Opportunity.  Apple  is  committed  to  the  requirements  of  Executive  Order  11246,  the 
Rehabilitation Assistance Act, and all regulations pertaining to that order. Pursuant to these requirements, the Equal 
Opportunity Clauses found at 41 Code of Federal Regulations sections 60-1.4(a) (1-7), 60-250.4(a-m), 60-300.5(a) 
and 60-741.5(a) (1- 6) are incorporated herein by reference as though set forth at length, and made an express part of 
this Agreement. If applicable, Seller will comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulations: (i) 52.222-26 
"Equal Opportunity", (ii) 52.222-35 "Affirmative Action for Special Disabled and Vietnam Veterans", (iii) 52.222-36 
"Affirmative Action for Handicapped Workers." 
41 CFR 60-300.5(a) 
This contractor and subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR 60-300.5(a). This regulation prohibits 
discrimination against qualified protected veterans, and requires affirmative action by covered prime contractors and 
subcontractors to employ and advance in employment qualified protected veterans. 
41 CFR 60-741.5(a) 
This contractor and subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR 60-741.5(a). This regulation prohibits 
discrimination  against  individuals  on  the  basis  of  disability,  and  requires  affirmative  action  by  covered  prime 
contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities. 
25.6.  Hazardous  Materials.  If  Goods  include  hazardous  materials,  Seller  represents  and  warrants  that  Seller 
understands the nature of any hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, and transportation of such hazardous 
materials 
26. PUBLICITY/MARKS. Seller will not use (or permit Seller Parties to use) Apple's trademarks, service marks, trade 
names, logo or other commercial or product designations for any purpose, or make (or permit Seller Parties to make) 
any public statement whatsoever (including, without limitation, press releases, media statements, case studies or the 
like) regarding the existence of this Agreement or the parties' relationship. 
27.  GOVERNING  LAW.  This  Agreement  and  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  will  be  governed  by  and 
construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California as applied to agreements entered into 
and  to  be  performed  entirely  within  California  between  California  residents,  without  regard  to  conflicts  of  law 
principles.  The  parties  expressly  agree  that  the  provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  Contracts  for  the 
International Sale of Goods will not apply to this Agreement or to their relationship. 
28. DISPUTE RESOLUTION, JURISDICTION AND VENUE. If there is a dispute between the parties (whether or 
not the dispute arises out of or relates to this Agreement), the parties agree that they will first attempt to resolve the 
dispute through one senior management member of each party. If they are unable to do so within sixty (60) days after 
the complaining party's written notice to the other party, the parties will then seek to resolve the dispute through non-
binding mediation conducted in Santa Clara County or San Francisco County, California. Each party must bear its 
own expenses in connection with the mediation and must share equally the fees and expenses of the mediator. If the 
parties  are  unable  to  resolve  the  dispute  within  sixty  (60)  days  after  commencing  mediation,  either  party  may 
commence litigation in the state or federal courts in Santa Clara County, California. The parties irrevocably submit to 
the exclusive jurisdiction of those courts and agree that final judgment in any action or proceeding brought in such 
courts will be conclusive and may be enforced in any other jurisdiction by suit on the judgment (a certified copy of 
which will be conclusive evidence of the judgment) or in any other manner provided by law. Process served personally 
or  by  registered  or  certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested,  will  constitute  adequate service  of  process  in  any such 
action,  suit  or proceeding.  Each  party  irrevocably  waives  to  the  fullest  extent  permitted  by  applicable  law  (i)  any 
objection it may have to the laying of venue in any court referred to above;  (ii) any claim that any such action or 
proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum; and (iii) any immunity that it or its assets may have from any 

 
OL-AMR-56 v. 2.9 
 
suit, execution, attachment (whether provisional or final, in aid of execution, before judgment or otherwise) or other 
legal process. 
29.  EQUITABLE  RELIEF.  Notwithstanding  Section  28  above,  either  party  may  seek  equitable  relief  in  order  to 
protect its confidential information or intellectual property at any time, provided it does so in the state or federal courts 
in  Santa  Clara  County,  California  (and  only  those  courts).  The  parties  hereby  waive  any  bond  requirements  for 
obtaining equitable relief. The confidentiality provisions of this Agreement will be enforceable under the provisions 
of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act, California Civil Code Section 3426, as amended. 
30. ENTIRE AGREEMENT/MODIFICATION. This Agreement is the complete, final, and exclusive statement of the 
terms of the agreement between the parties and supersedes any and all other prior and contemporaneous negotiations 
and  agreements  between  them  relating to  the subject  matter  hereof.  This Agreement  may  not  be  varied,  modified, 
altered, or amended except in writing signed by the parties. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail 
notwithstanding any variance with the terms and conditions of any acknowledgment or other document submitted by 
Seller. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement will not supersede or take the place of any written agreement 
that is signed by both parties and covers the same subject matter as this Agreement or its related POs. 
31.  SOFTWARE PROVISIONS.  In addition to the terms set forth above, the following terms apply as relevant to 
Apple’s purchase of any Software pursuant to this Agreement: 
31.1 License Grant and Limitations. Seller hereby grants to Apple and Apple contractors, consultants, and/or agents, 
a nonexclusive, transferable, worldwide, royalty-free, fully paid, perpetual license (unless specified otherwise in an 
ordering  document)  to  use,  display  and  reproduce the  Software. Seller reserves  all  rights  not  expressly  granted  to 
Apple herein. Apple shall not decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble or otherwise attempt to derive source code 
from the Software except as permitted by law and this Agreement. All Software shall be delivered electronically; if 
Seller is unable to deliver Software electronically, it shall deliver media containing the Software and Documentation 
to Apple at 10260 S.W. Greenburg Road, Suite 400, Portland, Oregon 97223 (503/293-8400).  
31.2 Title to Software. Seller retains title and intellectual property rights to the Software provided hereunder, and does 
not convey any proprietary interest therein to Apple other than the license specified above. Notwithstanding anything 
to the contrary included herein, all right, title and interest in and to the following shall vest in Apple and shall be the 
sole and exclusive property of Apple, and Apple does not convey any proprietary interest therein to Seller: (a) any 
data used in combination with the Software; (b) all output derived from the use of the Software; and (c) any additional 
computer programs that Apple develops to operate in combination with the Software for purposes of, including but 
not limited to, interoperability with Apple or third party systems, technology and/or software and/or development of 
application programming interfaces. 
31.3 Software Warranties. In addition to, and without limiting the warranties set forth in Section 5 (Warranties) herein, 
Seller represents and warrants that: (a) all Software shall conform in all respects to all applicable documentation; and 
(b)  any  disk(s)  or  other  media  on  which  the  Software  is  recorded  will  be  free  from  defects  in  materials  and 
workmanship under normal use and service for a period of one (1) year from the date of delivery; (c) the Software and 
documentation  are  not  subject  to  any open  source  or third  party licenses  that  would  impose  any  obligations, 
encumbrances, royalties, restrictions or requirements on Apple; (d) the Software is free of any and all viruses, Trojan 
horses, trap doors, protecting codes or any other internal components, devices or mechanisms which are intended to: 
(i) cause the Software to perform any material functions other than those described in the Documentation provided to 
Apple; (ii) halt, disrupt, limit access or grant improper access to or sabotage the Software or any other system, process 
or device; or (iii) reveal any data or other information accessed through or processed by the Software or other systems, 
processes or devices without the user’s consent; and (e) the remedies set forth in Section 5.2 (Goods) herein shall 
apply to any defective or non-conforming Software provided hereunder 