

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACT POLICIES  
 
AND  
 
P
ROCEDURES MANUAL 
 
 
REVISED JULY 2013 
 
 
 

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
2 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
 
Section 1: Definitions ..................................................................................................................... 3
 
Section 2: General Process.............................................................................................................. 7 
Section 3: Professional Service Agreement (PSA) ......................................................................... 8 
Section 4: Professional Service Agreements (PSA) ....................................................................... 9 
Section 5: Miscellaneous Contracts .............................................................................................. 10 
Section 6: No Cost Extensions ...................................................................................................... 10 
Section 7: Waivers of Competition ............................................................................................... 11 
Section 8: Exemptions .................................................................................................................. 11 
 
  

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
3 
 
Section 1: Definitions 
 
Pitt Community College is not required by law to submit requests to the Division of Purchase 
and Contract for approval related to printing and/or services. 
1
 
 
The exemption only applies to seeking approval from the Division of Purchase and Contract. It 
does not exempt PCC from seeking competition. 
 
This Manual defines types of contractual services and outlines procedures to be followed by PCC 
employees for procuring these services. The definitions below are intended to provide PCC 
employees a common vocabulary to use in relation to contracts. These definitions are applicable 
to PCC; note that other agencies/colleges may use slightly different terminology. 
 
Contract – An agreement between two or more parties that creates an obligation to perform (or 
not perform) a particular action. It is an agreement enforceable by law. In addition to creating 
obligations by and to external parties (vendors), a written contract is a record that serves as an 
internal check and balance permitting reviews of procurement activity for improper relationships, 
fraud, conflict of interest issues, and regulatory requirements.  
 
A legally enforceable written contract requires:  
1. An Offer (specific material/service, specifications and deliverables)  
2. An Acceptance  
3. Consideration (the value received and given)  
4. Execution by competent parties with the authority to bind the company  
 
Contract Formation - Contract formation is a series of pre-award procurement activities 
between an agency and a contractor that results in a contract. Other terms interchangeable are 
pre-solicitation and contract development phase. The contract formation activities serve as the 
preamble to these internal activities that will follow once the contract is executed. 
 
The procurement department offers a value to the contract formation or pre-award process. It is 
important that they play a hands-on role in the entire contract formation process. During this 
process, the procurement department can assist in developing specific contract goals and provide 
the internal customer (end user) with contract formation tools such as specifications, price, 
delivery types, selection and evaluation criteria, contract templates, forms, and general types of 
contracts that contain contract clauses designed to effectively minimize and manage contract 
risks. 
 
Scope of Work, Intent of Contract, Duration, etc – The awarded supplier will receive either a 
signed contract or a purchase order (or both) from the state entity. The purchase order and/or 
signed contract will include the terms, conditions and specifications governing the supplier’s 
contract performance. No supplier is authorized to begin contract performance prior to receiving 
a signed contract or purchase order from the state entity. Any required bonds (payment, 
performance, fidelity, insurance certification, etc.) or letters of credit must also be promptly 
submitted to the state entity in accordance with the terms of the contract. 
 
                                                 
1
 NC Agency Purchasing Manual, June 2008 page 7 

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
4 
 
The supplier’s receipt of a purchase order from PCC for a one-time purchase, a lease or 
installment purchase, or a fixed quantity contract, authorizes shipment in accordance with its 
terms. The supplier’s receipt of a Notice of Award from PCC establishing a term contract does 
not authorize any shipment. Shipment against term contracts is only authorized by the supplier’s 
receipt of a purchase order from PCC. The purchase order number or contract number must be 
shown on all bills of lading, packing slips, back orders, invoices, and other transactional 
documents. Any shipments made before the issuance/receipt of a purchase order, are made at the 
supplier’s sole risk. 
 
Contract Administrator -  The PCC employee who develops the Scope of Work and works with 
the contractor to ensure that the deliverables are met and the contractor is adhering to the 
timetable.  The Contract Administrator is the point person for the contractor and the Director of 
Purchasing. 
 
Primary responsibilities of the Contract Administrator include, but are not limited to: 
 
1. Understanding the contract terms and conditions including the scope and performance 
indicators. 
2. Managing any changes to the contract (change orders, amendments, addendums, renewals, 
extensions, terminations, etc.). 
3. Monitoring the contractor’s progress and performance to ensure goods and services 
conform to the contract requirements. 
4. Receiving and responding to communications between PCC and the contractor. 
Coordinating and scheduling meetings, if needed.  
5. Participating in resolving disputes in a timely manner. 
6. Exercising contractual remedies, as appropriate, when a contractor’s performance is 
deficient. 
7. Ensuring contractor’s performance evaluation form is completed and filed appropriately. If 
the value of the contract is greater than $10,000, then a copy must be submitted to P&C for 
inclusion in a centralized repository. Monitoring invoice payment reports from accounting 
for timeliness and accuracy. 
8. Documenting all actions taken regarding the contract and maintain such documentation as 
part of the official contract file. 
9. Closing out the contract file. 
 
The Contract Administrator shall avoid the following: 
 
1. Asking the contractor (inappropriately or unknowingly) to perform outside of the scope of 
work specified in the contract without adequate documents agreed to by both parties. 
2. Awarding, agreeing to, modifying, increasing the scope and dollar value of, or signing any 
contract directing change without adequate documents agreed to by both parties. 
3. Issuing instructions to a contractor to start or stop work except in an emergency situation 
without adequate written documents. 
4. Including personal opinions, in any correspondence, including emails. 

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
5 
 
Examples of things to avoid include, but are not limited to: 
1. Making commitments or promises (oral or written) to any contractor. 
2. Authorizing delivery or disposition of governmental-furnished property. 
3. Obligating PCC beyond the terms and conditions of the contract. 
4. Approving items of cost not authorized by the contract. 
5. Granting deviations from or waiving any of the terms and conditions of the contract. 
6. Changing the period of performance. 
7. Authorizing subcontracting or the use of consultants. 
8. Authorizing the use of overtime. 
 
Contract Renewal – For the purpose of PCC procedures, a contract renewal is the additional out 
years of a multi-year contract. In those out years, there is no contract to sign. 
 
Multi-Year Contract – A contract for service that includes an option to renew for additional 
years beyond the first year. 
 
Professional Service Agreement (PSA) – A type of contract used to procure services provided 
by a professional individual (person) on a temporary or occasional basis, including (by way of 
illustration, not limitation) those provided by an evaluator, an educator, or a speaker.  A PSA can 
also be used to procure services provided by a company, an organization, a community college, 
another State agency, requiring specialized knowledge, experience, expertise, or similar 
capabilities. The services may include (by way of illustration, not limitation) services such as, 
presenting a workshop, employee training, or development of promotional materials. If the 
service is primarily for review or analysis of PCC programs and/or projects, the policies and 
procedures for Consultant Services shall be applicable. (See definition of “Consultant”) 
 
Consultant – For the purposes of PCC procedures, a consultant is defined as an individual, 
company, or an employee of another company or State agency who reviews or analyzes PCC 
programs and provides counsel.  This includes, but is not limited to, the organization, planning, 
directing, evaluation, and operation of the divisions and programs within PCC.   
 
Deliverable – A service which PCC is requesting the contractor to provide. 
 
Foreign National - An individual who is not a citizen of the United States and does not pay 
income taxes in the U.S.  These persons are in the U.S. with visas. 
 
Purchase Order (PO) – A document describing goods or services, quantities and agreed prices 
for said goods or services the seller will provide to the buyer. Sending a PO to a supplier 
constitutes a legal offer to buy products or services and encumbers the available funds.  
 
Request for Proposal (RFP) – A formal, written solicitation document used to solicit 
competition and obtaining offers for services. The value must exceed $10,000,000 to use an RFP.  
 
 

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
6 
 
Waiver of Competition – P&C has determined that there are instances when colleges/agencies 
can request not to seek competitive bids for services.  If any of the conditions listed in Section 7 
“Waiver of Competition” of this manual apply, then a justification must be written citing the 
condition to waive the bidding process. 
 
 
 
Summary of Abbreviations 
 
ABBREVIATIONS MEANING 
CA Contract Administrator 
DP Director of Purchasing 
IPS Interactive Purchasing System 
IT Procurement Information Technology Procurement( a division within the 
Governor’s Office) 
PCC Pitt Community College 
PO Purchase Order 
PSA Professional Service Agreement 
P&C Purchase and Contract 
RFP Request for Proposal 
  

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
7 
 
Section 2: General Process 
 
I. Obtain preliminary approval from Assistant Vice President/Dean/Vice President. 
A PCC employee must receive preliminary approval from his/her Asst. Vice President/Dean/ 
Vice President and certify that funds are available before developing any type of contract. 
Each division shall develop its own process for seeking approval from within the division 
and obtaining certification of funds availability.   
 
II. Determine the appropriate vehicle for procuring the service.
 
A PCC employee must determine the appropriate vehicle for obtaining the desired service. 
 
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE vs. PROFESSIONAL SERVICE AGREEMENT 
 
III. Prepare the contract and obtain necessary approvals. 
Where programmatically appropriate, the use of multi-year contracts is encouraged to 
promote cost savings (Ex.one year plus four additional one year periods).   The initial year 
and each subsequent year of a multi-year contract should end on or before June 30
th
.  One-
year contracts should also end on or before June 30
th
. 
 
The template can be found on the PCC Purchasing Department website,
 along with the 
General Terms and Conditions. 
http://www.pittcc.edu/experience-pcc/administrative-departments/purchasing/documents.html 
 
It is the responsibility of the CA to assure that the contractor is performing the services in an 
acceptable and timely manner.  The CA must also sign off on all invoices.  His or her 
signature denotes that the service for which PCC has been billed is acceptable and in line 
with the terms of the contract and, therefore, the invoice should be paid. 
 
Contracts cannot be divided to keep them under the delegations set herein in order to avoid 
the rules requiring competition. 
 
 
 
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE PROFESSIONAL SERVICE AGREEMENT 
The work (the means and methods of accomplishing a 
task) is controlled and directed by a staff member. 
Only the result is controlled or directed by a staff 
member – the contractor works independently.  
Agency typically provides place to work. Individual works off site. 
Agency typically provides furniture/equipment. Individual provides own furniture/equipment. 
Agency can discharge individual. Specific justification for termination is part of the 
contract and usually requires written notice a minimum 
of 30 days in advance. 
 There are specific deliverables that must be defined and 
fulfilled to issue payment. 
 
 
A service that is required/needed by PCC 
 The PCC program staff defines tasks (deliverables) to be 
performed.  
 PCC must follow purchasing policies and procedures.  

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
8 
 
Inquire of the individual if he/she is a foreign national or a retired or current State employee. 
If so, contact the DP before proceeding with the steps below.  If the intended contractor is a 
foreign national, there is additional information that must be collected for tax purposes. Per 
G.S. 135-1(20), retirees subject to the North Carolina Teachers & State Employees’ 
Retirement System who retire on or after November 1, 2005, must render no service at any 
time during the six months immediately following the effective date of retirement. 
Consequently, the individual cannot enter into any professional service agreement during the 
six months immediately following the effective date of retirement without jeopardizing 
his/her retirement benefits. Retired State employees must sign a certification that they have 
been retired for at least six months. 
 
IV. Verify the contractor is registered with the NC E-Procurement System. If not, provide them 
the following link to register. If the contractor has concerns or questions, the CA will need to 
consult with the DP. (Registration must be completed prior to the PSA being finalized 
and signed). 
 
http://eprocurement.nc.gov/Vendor.html
 
 
Section 3:  Professional Service Agreement (PSA) 
 
When entering into an agreement with a vendor that is neither a community college nor a 
governmental entity, the amount of the agreement determines which process to follow.  
 
$4,999 and Less: 
 
1) Contact the individual (contractor) in writing and discuss the scope of work along with the 
terms of the contract.  Provide the individual (contractor) a copy of the General Terms and 
Conditions for them to review (t hey are attached to the Professional Service Agreement 
Template).   If the contractor has concerns or questions regarding the General Terms and 
Conditions, the CA may need to consult with the DP.  
 
2) Complete the PSA.   
 
3) Print out two copies of the PSA. 
 
4) Obtain internal signatures.   
 
5) The CA should mail both copies of the PSA to the contractor for signature. Once the 
contractor has returned both signed copies, the CA will prepare and submit an e-procurement 
requisition and attach a copy of the signed PSA to the requisition.  The CA should keep one 
copy of the PSA for his/her file. The second signed PSA should be held until the services 
have been completed and the contractor has submitted an invoice. Then submit both the PSA 
and invoice to accounts payable for payment. 
 
 
 
 
 

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
9 
 
Over $5,000– Non IT or IT-Related 
 
1) Prepare a Scope of Work for the services and desired results being sought and submit to 
the DP, along with the desired vendor. The DP will determine whether the competition 
must be solicited or the agreement qualifies for one of the “Waiver of Competition” 
provisions (Section 7).    
 
2) If the DP determines a wavier can be justified, follow steps 2-5 under “$4,999 and Less” 
section.  
 
3) If the DP determines that a waiver of competition is not justified, then he/she will notify 
the CA that an RFP will need to be prepared.  An email must be sent to the DP f rom the 
Asst. Vice President/Dean/Vice President authorizing the project. 
 
4) Once the RFP is prepared, it will be posted electronically to the Interactive Purchasing 
System (IPS) by the DP.  Notification of posting will be submitted to CA.  Proposals will 
be received and opened in Purchasing Department for documentation and record keeping.   
 
5) All proposals will be evaluated by the DP, CA and any other selected staff members 
associated with the Scope of Work.  Once all proposals have been thoroughly evaluated 
and a recommendation of award has been determined, the DP will send the RFP to the 
appropriate Asst. Vice President/Dean/Vice President for signature.  Once the RFP has 
been signed, the CA will prepare and submit an e-procurement requisition and attach a 
copy of the signed RFP to the requisition. The RFP will act as the PSA. 
 
 
Section 4:  Professional Service Agreements (PSA)  
 NC Community Colleges or Other NC Governmental Agencies 
 
PSA with the North Carolina community colleges, other North Carolina governmental agencies, 
local governments within North Carolina and Federal agencies, do not require competition. 
Note: non-profit organizations do not qualify as governmental agencies.  The process for this 
type of PSA is as follows: 
 
1) Acquire the scope of work (email will suffice) from the agency/community college. 
  
2) Complete steps 2-5 under “$4,999 and Less” s ection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
10 
 
Section 5: Miscellaneous Contracts 
 
Contracts Initiated by Other Entities 
 
On occasion other organizations or companies will send us their contracts, as defined on page 1, 
for signature.  The procedure is as follows: 
 
1)   A CA is to be identified and preliminary approval must be obtained from the Asst. Vice 
President/Dean/Vice President. 
2) Submit the contract electronically (if unavailable, submit hard copy) to the DP for 
review.  The CA will be contacted if any revisions are needed.  If the revisions change 
the scope of work or timetable, the CA must notify the contractor of the changes.  
3) Once revisions have been made, print out two copies of the contract. 
4) Obtain Signatures. 
5) The CA should mail both copies of the contract to the contractor (organization or 
company) for signature. Once the contractor has returned both signed copies, the CA will 
prepare and submit an e-procurement requisition and attach a copy of the signed PSA to 
the requisition.  The CA should keep one copy of the PSA for his/her file. The second 
signed PSA should be held until the services have been completed and the contractor has 
submitted an invoice. Then submit both the PSA and invoice to accounts payable for 
payment. 
 
Section 6: No Cost Extensions 
 
When a contractor needs to go beyond the end date on their contract for whatever reason, PCC 
may choose to issue a no-cost extension.   
 
***The template can be found on the PCC Purchasing Department website*** 
 
http://www.pittcc.edu/experience-pcc/administrative-departments/purchasing/documents.html 
 
The procedure is as follows: 
 
1)  Determine the new end date with the contractor.   
2) Complete the No Cost Contract Extension form and print out two hard copies.  
3) The signature lines should be the same as on the original contract.  The CGA will obtain 
remaining signatures and mail to the contractor for their signature. 
4) Once the extension has been signed by both parties, the CA should keep one copy for 
his/her file. 
 
 
 
 

                                      CONTRACT POLICES & PROCEDURES MANUAL 
   
11 
 
Section 7:  Waivers of Competition 
 
Please use the link below to view the waivers. 
 
http://ncrules.state.nc.us/ncac/title%2001%20-%20administration/chapter%2005%20-
%20purchase%20and%20contract/subchapter%20b/01%20ncac%2005b%20.1401.html 
 
 
Section 8:  Exemptions 
 
Please use the link below to view the exemptions. 
 
http://ncrules.state.nc.us/ncac/title%2001%20-%20administration/chapter%2005%20-
%20purchase%20and%20contract/subchapter%20b/01%20ncac%2005b%20.1601.html 
 
 
  
 
 